Hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in metatrader 4.
In the previous tutorial we talked about setting limitations for Europe to position.
And today we will talk about the two dimensional surface analysis.
Here I have the optimization settings open for our expert was a simple system version 5.0 and I still
have this window from last time.
So here I'll just uncheck the Maxim or drill down and just click reset so we don't have that interfering
with today's tutorial and they'll just click OK to save that and go back and text properties.
Now if we go to inputs we already have the take profit's set to optimize between 10 and 100 and stop
loss Tilse optimize between 10 or 100.
And I'll remind you that this is for that one very good set of parameters that we saw in the demo test
.
Now what we will do is we'll run this optimization as it is and we should see 100 results.
There we go there was a 100 back test that were run in fact less than 1 second.
So if we go to optimization resolves we'll see that there's a 100 here and also we can sort them by
profit and we'll see the most profitable one up here.
But what we are interested today in todays optimization graph so let's go ahead and select that as you
can see here you have these 100 trade 100 BAC tests ordered by They're always on this graph are always
ordered by their run and so up here we see the most profitable one if you bring your Mosse up here you'll
It will pop up of take profit 20 stop loss 50 goes with the optimize parameters and that is the best
one.
However this chart may not be the most visually effective in terms of our data analysis and visualization
and that's why a trade or for has an inbuilt functionality to allow you to visualize these results better
.
So if you right click on this chart and you select to the surface analysis you will see something like
this.
And so what this does is it chooses two parameters from the optimization in this case take Providence
Stop-Loss and places them on the two axes.
Right now on the x axis axes you have take profit on the y axes you have stop loss.
And so here is this is your take profit and this is your stop loss up here.
Each square represents a set of parameters with which you can find out which ones they are by just intersecting
the x and y axes so for example this one here is got take profits 30 and still plus 40 like the Pop-Pop
shows us and that is also correct if we take this 30 and we intersect with this 40 or here.
This line this line that you'll get this square here which means take profit Sturnus topless for it
.
But it is very visually appealing and more representative than the previous chart because the darkness
or the shade of each block shows you how profitable that particular back test was.
So for example this back test has the darkest color.
And that means it was the most profitable.
And here it says run 42 take profit 20 stop loss 50.
And if we go to the optimization results the most profitable trade back to us here is take profit 21
stop loss 50.
So that's basically what it means that the darker the color the more profitable right away you can see
here that all of these results where Stop-Loss was 50 up to 100.
They were the most profitable ones.
And but at the same time take the take profit had to always be 20 pips.
So that's something you have to notice if you go left or right from that take profit return drops quite
quickly.
Also you can see from this chart that this area of squares was quite profitable so if you take profit
is between 40 and 80 and your stop loss is between 50 and 100 then you will you're likely to have profitable
results in these tests.
And conversely you can see this light shaded line which is quite interesting because if your stop loss
is between is actually equal to 20 then you're more likely to have losses and that isn't even the case
when you stop loss is equal to 10.
So this is quite an anomaly which is interesting to observe.
So what are we going to do now is we're going to ask for as first as a first step will increase the
number of steps so let's say instead of doing a step 10 step or five and see how that affects our Chuck
So click OK and we'll start optimization now and then we'll go to possess Grof.
As you can see here the number of steps has increased.
Don't just try to make this a bit bigger so we can see better.
So you can see here that there is now much more blocks but we still see a similar pattern here here
we have profitable trades also in this.
Maybe triangle or the square we have more profitable trades.
And then we have this white line here.
So that's also quite an interesting observation.
You can still use the tiddy two dimensional surface for analysis here and if you have more than two
parameters so let's add the min limit into this mix and let's optimize it between 0 and 10 or a step
of one click OK and we'll kick start.
So this did take a little bit longer because we do have a bit more back to.
I had to be run.
But you know if you go to the optimization chart you'll see that at the bottom you said different axes
and that's because the X-axis is now the min Pip limit and the y axis is take profits so let's return
them waxes to Stop-Loss which we're used to.
And the x axes to take profit.
And once again we see a similar picture.
However now each block over the size of this match matrix represents not only one but a stack of BACS
tests and the color shows you the best out of them.
So here you will see all the back tests that had take profit 20 and topless 45 and that in reality there
was actually 10 of them because there was 10 back tests with different MinPip limits . So MinPip limit
was one to three and all the way up to 10.
And for each one of those to take us 20 and 45.
And so the caller presents the most profitable out of those 10.
So here you can see that the most profitable those 10 has been pip pip limit to take profit 21 for take
profit 20 and stop loss 45.
So this kind of allows you to analyze the two variables take profit and Stop-Loss will fall out worrying
about the other ones.
So I'll show you another example this change the x axes from take profit to MinPip limit.
Now on the bottom we have the the limit and on the top on the x y axis we have the stop loss so that
allows us to analyze those two parameters against each other so contrast them without having to worry
about the take profit to take profit is taken to account automatically by the tester it only looks at
the Bestec profit for any combination of the limit and the stop loss and right away you can see that
you would rather have limit somewhere between 0 and 3.
If you can set your stop loss around 45 to 60 in this area or you can if you're able to set if you'd
like to set your limit a bar at 10 then you should set a stop loss anywhere between 45 and 100.
And also if you just put your mouse over any particular result will tell you the exact profit which
is which works best with that combo.
So that's the two dimensional surface analysis and that's how you would use it.
It is quite handy in some circumstances when you want to contrast two variables against each other and
see how they work best in what kind of composition.
I think that's enough for today's tutorial.
Next time we will discuss exploring optimization results in Excel and further analysis there.
And I look forward to seeing you then.
Until next time happy training.